[THUNDER]
[ETHEREAL CHIME]
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
>> Our practice will be
to mentally construct
the octahedron and cube
Platonic duals pair and then
to transform their
size and color.
We will be observing also
how this practice activates
new circuits in the mind,
feeling the energetic shifts
in the head which accompany
our actively visualizing
and transforming
these geometric forms.
Please remember that you can
pause the video of my teaching
you this practice
whenever you would like
more time to perform each step.
We will begin with our energy
field awareness practice
to get a baseline for
our beginning state
so that we can then perceive
the changes in ourselves
from doing this practice.
Simply close your eyes
for a moment and tune
into the feeling of energy
inside and around your body.
Don't try to change or
manipulate anything.
Just observe the feelings in
different parts of your body
and throughout your
entire energy field.
Then observe what
emotions or thoughts
are present as a background
in your current state.
Now we can begin
the practice itself.
We will show you on
the video some stages
of the exact visualization you
will need to do as a guide.
However, please be aware that
simply watching the video
will not activate these
internal circuits fully.
To get the full benefits,
you must do the practice
yourself with eyes closed,
mentally generating
and transforming
each form internally.
You will be creating in this
exercise three Platonic solids
nested inside of one another.
So make the first
form you visualize
in the exercise fairly
large in your mind space,
so you have space for
the other two forms
to be created inside of it.
Now we will create this first
large form in your mind space.
Begin by visualizing a single
point of light in space,
the zero dimensional gateway
to the divine plane, the zero
point.
From this point, draw a line
of light upwards and downwards,
creating a one-dimensional line
of light, the first dimension
in space connecting
heaven and earth.
Then draw a line of light
from the original point
out to the right and
left sides 90 degrees
to the top-down line, creating
the second dimension of space
and creating an equilateral
cross of light on a flat plane.
Then draw a line of light
out from the central point
to both the front and
the back at 90 degrees
to both other lines
you've created.
This will create a
three-axis cross,
which we described previously
as the cubicle cross which
makes up the three
dimensions of physical space.
Make sure all the lines of
light extend the same distance
outwards from the
central point of light.
What energy movements
or shifts do you
feel in your head or body from
creating this form in your mind
space?
Now make a line of
light connecting
the top point of
the three-axis cross
to both ends of the
side-to-side axis line
and then from the top
point to both ends
of the front-back axis line.
Then create lines of light that
connect the front-back points
to the side points
so that all four
of the front-back and
side-to-side points
are now connected
together into a square.
You have now constructed a
three-dimensional pyramid
of light at the
top of the cross.
Now make a line of light
connecting the bottom point
of the three-axis cross to both
ends of the side-to-side axis
line and then to both ends
of the front-back axis line.
You have now constructed
two pyramids of light,
one up and one down,
sharing the same base.
This is the octahedron, the
Platonic solid for the air.
We see now how it is
constructed out of the three
axes of physical space.
Fill in the triangular
sides of the octahedron
so that they are not hollows but
become flat, triangular, solid
faces.
What energy movements
or shifts do you
feel in your head or body from
creating this octahedral form
in your mental space?
Now place your attention
on the very center
of each of the four triangular
faces on the top pyramid
of the octahedron.
Draw straight lines
of light connecting
the center of each of the
four faces to the center
of each adjacent face.
This creates a square
of light connecting
the centers of the four top
faces of the octahedron.
Now place your attention
on the very center
of each of the four triangular
faces on the bottom pyramid
of the octahedron.
Now draw straight lines
of light connecting
the center of each
of the four faces
to the center of
each adjacent face.
This creates another square
connecting the centers
of the four bottom faces.
This square hovers
directly below the square
connecting the centers
of the four top faces.
Now simply draw a straight
vertical line of light
to connect each of the
corners of the bottom square
to the corner directly
above it of the top square.
Fill in the sides
of all six square
faces to make them solid.
You have now created
the cube, the dual form
of the octahedron.
Now place your attention
on the very center
of each of the six
square faces of the cube.
Draw lines of light
from the center
of the top square directly to
the centers of the four side
faces.
Then connect with lines of light
the centers of each of the four
side faces to the center
of both adjacent faces.
You have now constructed a
pyramid inside of the cube.
Now draw lines of
light connecting
the centers of the four
side faces of the cube
to the center of the
bottom square face,
creating an octahedron.
Make the eight triangular
faces of the octahedron solid.
You have now used the
Platonic dual method
to connect divine centers,
which then manifests
the outer forms of
the octahedron of air
and the cube of earth.
You now have an
octahedron within a cube
within an octahedron.
Now use your mental power to
make the large outer octahedron
a blue color.
Then make the middle
cube a green color.
Then make the small inner
octahedron a red color.
What energy movements
or shifts do you
feel in your head or
body from adding color
to these three forms and
holding that inner visualization
steady?
Is the image of the three forms
and their colors rock steady
on your internal mental screen,
or does it fade in and out
as you need to continually
remind yourself and recreate
the form?
Just observe how strong your
visualization power is right
now, knowing it will get
stronger very quickly
every time you repeat this
practice in the future.
This mental strengthening
is key to developing
creative visualization
and manifestation powers.
Keeping the cube
steady and immobile
between the two
octahedra, rotate
the outer blue
octahedron clockwise.
Then rotate the inner red
octahedron counterclockwise.
You now have two octahedra
of different sizes
and different colors,
counterrotating
with an immobile green
cube between them.
What energy movements
are shifts do you
feel in your head or body from
creating and counterrotating
these forms in
your mental space?
If you are sensitive, you may
have noticed specific energy
activations in your
head or your body
when making and transforming
these Platonic solid forms.
You may have felt a specific
energy activation in your head
or body when adding
in the colors
and then felt a very
different energy
activation when you began
to rotate and counterrotate
the forms.
This classical practice
with creating and rotating
sacred geometry forms
is just the beginning
of this path, which can develop
great mind power within us.
This type of practice can
activate key energy circuits
in the head and body,
developing our capacity
to perceive and create
forms on the mental plane.
These mental forms we
create are not abstractions.
They can be perceived
by true clairvoyants
and by higher spiritual beings,
such as the angelic beings
described in the
Western tradition.
In fact, it is easier for
higher spiritual beings
to perceive these kinds
of geometric thought forms
that we generate than it
is for them to perceive
our physical bodies.
This ability to create mental
images on higher plane levels
leads in time to more advanced
stages of inner development
as we strengthen our
ability to perceive
and communicate
with higher worlds
through this new mind power.
If you had difficulty
visualizing the forms
or adding color or adding
movement, don't despair.
Simply observe what
parts were easy for you
and which were
difficult. This shows you
the area you now need
to work on to strengthen
that aspect of your mind power.
As we mentioned at the outset,
these kinds of mental practices
require activating a
particular energy pathway
in your head, which is similar
to flexing a physical muscle,
and just like a physical muscle,
you will strengthen it greatly
every time you use it
in practices like this.
This exercise starts the
process of opening up
your internal vision on the
first nonphysical consciousness
level, which is known
in the Western tradition
as the astral plane.
The term "aster" means star,
meaning a source of light
in the cosmic darkness.
For more information on core
spiritual development exercises
like these, please see online
trainings in spiritual science
on my website, www.vesica.org.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]